README.md, before:

# PyLiaison

A library that easily allows users to embed python interpreters in C++ applications and facilitates data transfer to and from the interpreter.

`pyl::RunCmd( "print('Hello from Python!')" );`

## Examples

Here is a simple example that shows how you can communicate with the interpreter. The interpreter is initalized, and the main module is retrieved as a pyl::Object (a shared ptr type meant to mimic mutable python types.) 

    // Initialize the python interpreter
    pyl::initialize();

    // Get the main module, which is stored as python object
    pyl::Object obMain = pyl::GetMainModule()

The attrdict of an object can be accessed freely via templated set and get functions.

    // Create a object in the module (an int named iVal)
    int iVal( 12345 );
    obMain.set_attr( "iVal", iVal );

    // Negate the value in python
    pyl::RunCmd( "iVal = -iVal" );

    // Get the value and convert it to an int
    int iNegVal( 0 );
    obMain.get_attr( "iVal", iNegVal'

Finalizing the interpreter

    // Shut down the interpreter
    pyl::finalize();
    
### Modules

Custom modules can be declared in C++. The modules can contain interfaces to functions, class definitions, and member functions that can be imported by the interpreter.

    // We'll declare this function in a custom module
    double mycos( double d ) {
        return cos( d );
    }

    // Define a module named pylFuncs
    pyl::ModuleDef * pModDef = CreateMod( pylFuncs );

    // Add the Mycos function to the module
    AddFnToMod( pModDef, mycos );

    // Initialize the interpreter
    pyl::initialize();

    //Import our module and invoke the function
    pyl::RunCmd( "import pylFuncs" );
    pyl::RunCmd( "print('The cosine of 0 is', pylFuncs.Mycos(0.))" );
    
Like real python modules, custom modules can be wrapped by a pyl::Object and manipulated like anything else. 

    // Get the os.path module as an pyl::Object, which is backed by a shared_ptr 
    pyl::RunCmd( "from os import path" );
    pyl::Object obPathMod = pyl::GetMainModule().get_attr( "path" );

    // Invoke the abspath function on the current file, store value
    std::string filePath;
    obPathMod.call("abspath", __FILE__).convert(filePath);
    
### Functions and Scripts
Suppose I write a script (in a file named script.py) with a function that delimits strings, returning the individual strings in a list:

    # script.py
    def delimit(str, d):
        return str.split(d)
    
Scripts can be loaded into pyl::Objects. Any object with a callable variable can be accessed by using a pyl::Object's call function. 

    // Load the script from disk into a pyl::Object
    pyl::Object obScript = pyl::Object::from_script("script.py");

    // We'll turn this sentence into a vector of words
    std::string sentence = "My name is john";
    std::vector<std::string> vWords;

    // Call the function, convert the return value into a vector of strings
    obScript.call("delimit", sentence, " ").convert(vWords);

### Objects and Classes
    
A pyl::Object is meant to behave similarly to a PyObject, which is the general purpose type used to contain just about every variable available within the python interpreter. They own a std::shared_ptr to the object, meaning the object will stay alive for as long as it is passed around (like a mutable python object.)

If I were to declare a Foo instance f in this script, I could store it in C++ inside a pyl::Object

    # Foo.py
    class Foo:
        def __init__(self):
            pass
            
        def doSomething(self):
            print('Something')
            
    f = Foo()

The object can be stored as a C++ variable or declared into another pyl::Object. 

    // Get the object from the script and store it in a pyl::Object
    pyl::Object obFooInst = pyl::Object::from_script("Foo.py").get_attr("f");

    // Invoke a member function using the instance
    obFooInst.call("doSomething");

    // Declare a reference to the original object in the main module
    pyl::GetMainModule().set_attr("f", obFooInst);
    
Instances of C++ structs and classes can also be exposed into the interpreter by reference.
The definitions of the object are stored in a custom module like so:

    // The C++ Bar class definition
    class Bar{
        int x;
    public:
        Bar() : x(0) {}
        void setX(int x) { this->x = x);
        int getX() return { x);
    };

    // Create a pyl module
    pyl::ModuleDef * pBarMod = CreateMod( pylBar );

    // Add the class definiiton and member functions
    AddClassDefToMod(pBarMod, Bar);
    AddMemFnTomod(pBarMod, setX, void, int);
    AddMemFnTomod(pBarMod, getX, int);

    // Now I can use the module definition to declare
    // wrapper variable to a Bar instance named cppBar
    Bar B;
    pBarMod->Expose_Object("cppBar", B);

With the Bar instance B exposed into the interpreter,
I can execute the following python code

    x = cppBar.getX()
    cppBar.setX(1)

The cppBar variable is tied to the Bar instance B that we exposed,
and will be valid as long as that instance's address is valid.

C++ class instances can also be exposed via their pointer

    // Expose a pointer to Bar instance B into the main module
    pyl::GetMainModule.set_attr("ptrBar", &B);

    // Assuming the Bar class definition has been imported, 
    // the wrapper variable can be declared
    pyl::RunCmd("cppB = pylBar.Bar(ptrB");

Commit message:

Still trying to doll this up for the github.io page.

README.md, after:

# PyLiaison

A library that easily allows users to embed python interpreters in C++ applications and facilitates data transfer to and from the interpreter.

`pyl::RunCmd( "print('Hello from Python!')" );`

## Purpose

The purpose of this library is to allow for projects that make use of both dynamic and compiled code to obtain a balance between performance and iteration time. C++ code can be exposed to and driven by python scripts via the use of custom modules created at runtime, and python objects (including modules and functions) can be encapsulated into C++ objects for scripted interfaces and components. 

Data can also be passed to and from the interpreter freely, and custom overloads can be written to convert python objects to C++ types or allocate python objects from C++ types. 

## Examples

Here is a simple example that shows how you can communicate with the interpreter. The interpreter is initalized, and the main module is retrieved as a pyl::Object (a shared ptr type meant to mimic mutable python types.) 

    // Initialize the python interpreter
    pyl::initialize();

    // Get the main module, which is stored as python object
    pyl::Object obMain = pyl::GetMainModule()

The attributes of an object can be accessed freely via templated set and get functions.

    // Create a object in the module (an int named iVal)
    int iVal( 12345 );
    obMain.set_attr( "iVal", iVal );

    // Negate the value in python
    pyl::RunCmd( "iVal = -iVal" );

    // Get the value and convert it to an int
    int iNegVal( 0 );
    obMain.get_attr( "iVal", iNegVal'

Finalizing the interpreter

    // Shut down the interpreter
    pyl::finalize();
    
### Modules

Custom modules can be declared in C++. The modules can contain interfaces to functions, class definitions, and member functions that can be imported by the interpreter.

    // We'll declare this function in a custom module
    double mycos( double d ) {
        return cos( d );
    }

    // Define a module named pylFuncs
    pyl::ModuleDef * pModDef = CreateMod( pylFuncs );

    // Add the Mycos function to the module
    AddFnToMod( pModDef, mycos );

    // Initialize the interpreter
    pyl::initialize();

    //Import our module and invoke the function
    pyl::RunCmd( "import pylFuncs" );
    pyl::RunCmd( "print('The cosine of 0 is', pylFuncs.Mycos(0.))" );
    
Like real python modules, custom modules can be wrapped by a pyl::Object and manipulated like anything else. 

    // Get the os.path module as an pyl::Object, which is backed by a shared_ptr 
    pyl::RunCmd( "from os import path" );
    pyl::Object obPathMod = pyl::GetMainModule().get_attr( "path" );

    // Invoke the abspath function on the current file, store value
    std::string filePath;
    obPathMod.call("abspath", __FILE__).convert(filePath);
    
### Functions and Scripts
Suppose I write a script (in a file named script.py) with a function that delimits strings, returning the individual strings in a list:

    # script.py
    def delimit(str, d):
        return str.split(d)
    
Scripts can be loaded into pyl::Objects. Any object with a callable variable can be accessed by using a pyl::Object's call function. 

    // Load the script from disk into a pyl::Object
    pyl::Object obScript = pyl::Object::from_script("script.py");

    // We'll turn this sentence into a vector of words
    std::string sentence = "My name is john";
    std::vector<std::string> vWords;

    // Call the function, convert the return value into a vector of strings
    obScript.call("delimit", sentence, " ").convert(vWords);

### Objects and Classes
    
A pyl::Object is meant to behave similarly to a PyObject, which is the general purpose type used to contain just about every variable available within the python interpreter. They own a std::shared_ptr to the object, meaning the object will stay alive for as long as it is passed around (like a mutable python object.)

If I were to declare a Foo instance f in this script, I could store it in C++ inside a pyl::Object

    # Foo.py
    class Foo:
        def __init__(self):
            pass
            
        def doSomething(self):
            print('Something')
            
    f = Foo()

The object can be stored as a C++ variable or declared into another pyl::Object. 

    // Get the object from the script and store it in a pyl::Object
    pyl::Object obFooInst = pyl::Object::from_script("Foo.py").get_attr("f");

    // Invoke a member function using the instance
    obFooInst.call("doSomething");

    // Declare a reference to the original object in the main module
    pyl::GetMainModule().set_attr("f", obFooInst);
    
Instances of C++ structs and classes can also be exposed into the interpreter by reference.
The definitions of the object are stored in a custom module like so:

    // The C++ Bar class definition
    class Bar{
        int x;
    public:
        Bar() : x(0) {}
        void setX(int x) { this->x = x);
        int getX() return { x);
    };

    // Create a pyl module
    pyl::ModuleDef * pBarMod = CreateMod( pylBar );

    // Add the class definiiton and member functions
    AddClassDefToMod(pBarMod, Bar);
    AddMemFnTomod(pBarMod, setX, void, int);
    AddMemFnTomod(pBarMod, getX, int);

    // Now I can use the module definition to declare
    // wrapper variable to a Bar instance named cppBar
    Bar B;
    pBarMod->Expose_Object("cppBar", B);

With the Bar instance B exposed into the interpreter,
I can execute the following python code

    x = cppBar.getX()
    cppBar.setX(1)

The cppBar variable is tied to the Bar instance B that we exposed,
and will be valid as long as that instance's address is valid.

C++ class instances can also be exposed via their pointer

    // Expose a pointer to Bar instance B into the main module
    pyl::GetMainModule.set_attr("ptrBar", &B);

    // Assuming the Bar class definition has been imported, 
    // the wrapper variable can be declared
    pyl::RunCmd("cppB = pylBar.Bar(ptrB");
